Carlos, so that our students can better
understand the concept of value innovation
and how to use the RICE
matrix, I think there are some
cases that are very illustrative
and I will ask you to explain
them to us.
The first is curves, the gymnastics
curves.
Tell us briefly what it consists
of and how you have managed to generate
this so differentiated proposal.
Well, because curves is a good
example of value innovation
thinking in the women's
customer segment.
Curves are female gyms only for
women, in which they adapted
their value proposal to bring
the greatest possible value to
the segment, for women, while
making an innovation in value
containing the things associated
with the launch and operation
of this type of gyms.
How can they reduce costs?
Well, they can reduce costs
because being a gym only for
women, some aspects such
as dressing rooms, services,
coaches are reduced.
They also reduce costs because
the model, as we will see
when we talk about value, is
a model based on everything
happening on a small area, in
a circle, so that the square meters
a gym requires curves is much
smaller than a traditional gym.
And they also reduce costs because
the type of machines that this
gym uses for curved women
also requires a much lower investment.
Clarissim, clarissim, is that
you see, seeing a gym curves, you
see clearly that the machinery is
simpler, it is all simpler and
smaller locations, etc.
And how do you get to increase
value thinking about this segment
of customers that are women?
Indeed, the magnificent thing
about this example is that in
addition to having reduced costs,
as we have seen, it has greatly increased
the perceived value for
the segment, for women, obviously
not for other segments
because it is a gym only
for women.
The mere fact that it is only for women
I understand that it adds value to
the segment.
Women go to the gym more focused
on exercising and therefore the
one that only women, since from
a point of view of intimacy
and others, possibly provides
a lot of value.
It brings value because everything
happens, as we said, in a
circle, in a relatively
small room and in a circle in such
a way that while we exercise
we are doing networking
or relationships with other women.
And it also adds value to thinking
about women because in curves
all the exercise you do two
or three times a week happens
in 30 minutes, unlike traditional
gyms where we normally
have to be an hour, hour
and a half.
Well, I would tell you that in
the traditional gyms, in addition to
time, they don't give you it
packaged, that is, they don't give you
a solution of, in addition to that it's
little time, that's very efficient, this
reminds me a little of The Power MBA,
more efficient, in the case of curves
is that they give you the closed
format, it's not like you have
to go there to see what's there.
30 minutes you change the
machine and you make your table,
to say somehow, in just 30 minutes,
with which it is very compatible
for women working, escape
at noon, a little curves,
eat fast and go back
to work.
Therefore, pure value for the
segment while reducing in costs.
A great example of value innovation.
It is clear.
Tell us, we will see with the curve
too and with the Madrid-
Rice, how is the value innovation
of yogurt stores these that have
grown in the last five years
competing with traditional
ice cream stores.
Is it Mui?
It is one of the chains that has grown the most.
Mui is a ice cream store
that may seem Nordic by
its name, but it is from Murcia.
It has more than 150 locations in Spain
and has grown very quickly with
a strong differentiation because
it has known to find for the customer
segment, young people, the same
that goes to this type of establishments,
a strong differentiation in
value, providing a differentiation
in the value proposal at the
same time that has gone with
a strong cost reduction.
If we see the strategic picture and
beyond the price, that I think there
is a variety in this type of establishments
very high, I would say that it
is Mui is in an intermediate
range, is not relevant therefore
its lower price differentiation.
No, basically here the price for what
we see is the same, a ice cream is
the same as a yogurt of these, but
what happens is that of course, the
cost of production is lower.
I would say graphically, as
we can see in the image, they are
two absolutely opposite value
curves, where a traditional ice cream
store has an enormous variety
of flavors of all kinds, which
we could imagine in the Mui only
we find a ice cream, nothing
more.
The variation will be achieved
by other variables.
Where traditional ice cream stores
have a strong craftsmanship,
in the case of S-Mui we are
talking about an absolutely
industrial product and
produced in a massive way.
In exchange, that is, we have
the design of the stores in the traditional
life, it is not only important
in S-Mui, it is where they have been
able to invest and differentiate
with that image so peculiar
of this chain of yogurt
or ice cream stores.
Likewise, the location in large
shopping centers that ensure
a customer traffic, a strong investment
in brand image and then some
concepts that have just rounded
up that differentiation
of the value proposal.
It is an easy product to choose
because we only have a variety
in which we differentiate
it through toppings that helps
a lot to personalize the product
and also to make superior
product sales.
And have learned to invest
in a healthy product concept, being
a less crafty product, less
possibly more industrial than a
traditional ice cream store,
this concept of ice cream yogurt
have known to consider
it as a healthy product
and therefore a perception
of value.
The truth is that seeing this
Carlos, listening to you, is that now
we understand the huge growth that
these competitors of ice cream shops
have had, because it is that in the
value curve you see absolutely,
the cost of production is
much lower because it is
less craftsman, you only have
one product, etc.
Then you add more value.
And indeed a lot of people, there
is a ice cream shop next to
a yogurt shop and choose the yogurt
shop whatever it is, because
what you say you are easier to choose,
because children like the toppings
and because it is healthy,
etc.
Well very clear.
They have learned to choose the variables
to invest that have actually allowed
them to grow against others
that possibly do not provide a
relevant value for the segment.
actually is.
Motel One, tell us.
Well, Motel One is another magnificent
example of value innovation.
We are talking about a German
hotel chain with a few dozen
establishments in Europe and
in clear expansion that what
has started is to define a market
segment that I think was
little exploited.
And it's young people, usually
couples with limited purchasing
power, but who don't want
to give up a series
of confusing features when
traveling.
Every time you travel more, this
segment travels more, but they are
used to a number of advantages
that they do not want to give up.
If we see the strategic picture
of Motel One, we basically see
that in the face of the alternative
of a costly four or five-star hotel
or a cheap three-star hotel but
with very limited services,
Motel One takes the best of each
of them thinking again in the
segment and trying to shed, aquilating
costs in those aspects that
are not relevant to the
young people segment with
limited purchasing power and
investing in those variables
not excessively costly
but that do provide a huge
perception of value in the
segment.
As you can see in the picture, where
did you deinvest or where did you
save costs Motel One?
Often, it's a hotel and a
person in the reception who
sells you a bottle of water
at any time of the day
or solves a question
or even serves you a Coca-
Cola in the afternoon.
Services are very limited, common
areas are generally limited to
a wide reception where almost
everything happens, breakfast,
check-in, a conversation
with a beer in the afternoon,
etc.
The size of the rooms, are logically
rooms of a small size, that
is, in exchange for modern,
clean, etc.
In amenities, gel, this type
of accessories we usually put, because
it is the fact that each one
of us travels with them and
is a way to save.
That is, where he has invested,
strongly, to really capture that
market segment.
In design, they are hotels with
a very modern design, minimalist,
in the location, they are hotels
well situated for this type of tourism
and everything that has to do in
general with technology, online
reservations, check-in and
check-out through the smartphone
with a quality internet application
and technology in the
rooms, etc.
Definitely a magnificent value
proposal, a cost and an unbeatable
price for this segment that'd
fit people at 60 or 70
with a high purchase price
than what they want is
a traditional 4- or 5-star
hotel.
The truth is that I love it
too, above all, it is very easy to
understand if we compare it with
the 2 and 3 star hotels, because
the price is the same.
As you say, the price is the same.
But of course, what they do is, Model
One, with respect to the 2 or
3 stars, decrease the investment in
personnel, in services, in which the
common areas are, you do not need in
many cases because you will almost
just sleep, that the common zones
are the minimum expression, etc.
You will be able to use the gel,
shampoo and so on.
But what it does in return is,
as does the 2 or 3 star
hotels, in many cases young
people may not square the design
or are not located where they
want, Model One invests
in that.
They are very modern hotels,
aesthetically very attractive, that
although the rooms are small,
in the end the feeling is very
good.
And then that include the services
that we demand young people
depends on speed, technology,
etc.
It's not the best value
proposal we could think of
for a hotel, but it's the
best hotel value proposal
for the customer segment we've
mentioned.
Actually, very good case.
Thank you very much Carlos, very interesting.
thanks to.